# Microsoft New Movie Studio Analysis

**Author**: Diannah Wangura

## Overview

This project analyzes the basic needs of the Microsoft which is planning to open a new movie studio. Descriptive analysis of title ratings and title basics shows that the genre type of movie produced determines its numvotes at the box office. The head of Microsoft's new movie studio can use this analysis to decide what type of films to create

## Business Problem

The head of Microsoft new movie studio will be able to narrow down to the movies that are most liked by people and thus reduce costs related with production of movies that do not have votes at the boxoffice. Doing so will allow the studio to rise up the ladder to other big companies and have better ratings in production.Using imdb title ratings and title basics, I describe consideration in production patterns in genres.

## Data

IMDB is is the world's most popular and authoritative source for movie and the data provided will help in knowing which movies have the highest rating and numvotes at the box office.The data has a unique id repreresented by the variable tconst which is allocated to each movie produced.The data files also provides the genre,averagerating,productionyear and numvotes of each movie properties.

## Methods

This project uses descriptive analysis, including description of movie production over time. This provides a useful overview to Microsoft to use in their new studio.


## Results

Movies with a higher number of votes tend to have higher average ratings.However,the relationship can have exceptions, and there are various factors that can influence a movie's average rating. For example, the genre, the quality of the movie, and individual preferences can all play a role in determining the average rating.
The most produced movies are a combination of Action,Adventure and Sci-Fi and i would advise microsoft to consider producing movies with the same combination as they have the highest likelihood of having the highest number of votes and they have a higher preference among the audience.


## Conclusions
would recommend Microsoft to venture into the business of movie creation as it has a broad audience who are eager for high quality movies and be consistent on productivity.They should also put quality budget so as to gain the rewards on popularity. Limitations on the project would having data that dates past many years and the preferences may have changed currently among the viewers For improvement in this project in future i could consider adding a dataset that shows the returns generated by each movie whether domestic or foreign returns
